# Data-Visualizaiton
<B>Problem</B>

COVID-19 infection not only physically affected individuals and societies, but also psychologically. Cases of suicide, which is one of the bad consequences of mental distress, increase during such periods. In this study, it will be examined whether the Covid-19 process has an effect on the number of suicides.

<B>Process Description</B>

&nbsp&nbsp&nbspIn my project, I used the datasets available on the "Statisca" and "Office for National Statitics" sites. The Covid-19 case number data set was a constantly updated data set, while the suicide rates data set examined the 2011-2020 suicide cases in 4 quarters. First of all, I started with the data set of the Englands's regional Covid-19 case numbers. Later, in the same way, I showed the number of suicide cases by region on the map. For these visualizations, I made use of the "Datawrapper" site, which can be used online. In the suicide cases data set, there were also values such as rate, LCI, UCI, but I removed this data as it was not necessary for my project. Since the data set of suicide cases is quite large, I divided it into 3 parts so that I could get healthier visuals. First, I visualized the total suicide cases from 2011 to 2020, when the years were divided into four quarters, using the Lines Chart Type. Since the first Covid-19 case was seen in the Englands in January 2020, I knew that the important part for me was the year 2020. Then I wanted to examine the suicide rates by gender because women and men might have been affected differently by the process. First of all, I examined the suicide numbers of women between 2011-2020 in 4 quarters of the year and realized that visualizing the data with Stacked Bars would make the situation clearer. Later, I repeated the same process for data on the number of men who committed suicide and used the Area Chart to visualize this data. I think the different color used for each quarter reflects the situation well. Finally, I wanted to examine the number of suicide cases by age because certain age groups seemed to be more affected by the process, I noticed that there were more cases of suicide, especially in the middle age group who were laid off and had to support their family. However, I had to examine pre-pandemic suicide cases to determine whether this increased after Covid-19. I also got the average of the age groups who committed suicide between 2015-2019. Thus, I would have the average number of suicides after the pandemic and the suicide rates of 5 years before the pandemic. I visualized these two data sets with a Grouped Column Chart. When I evaluate it on the basis of age, the average number of suicides in the last 5 years and the number of suicides in 2020 were almost the same. Although the Covid-19 process had an effect on suicide, it seemed very little. Gender-based assessment seemed to have more of a difference in this regard.<br />

&nbsp&nbsp&nbspThe most difficult part of my project was finding the data set. Actually, what I wanted was the data of Turkey, but there was no data set in this sense, and I started to research on the same subject on the basis of the country and I saw that the Englands has such a data set. In the beginning, I only had suicide cases in the Englands, but I continued my research because I also needed the current number of Covid-19 cases. At this stage, the problem you faced was this; The number of virus-related cases was shared on a United Kingdom basis, but I only needed the Englands's regional number of cases for a healthy comparison. I was able to access this information via the "Statisca" website. Although I had various problems during the visualization phase of the data, I was able to solve these problems by rearranging the data set.
